README.md, before:

What is this?
=============

At boot time, GRUB on Debian and most other distros will show something like:

    GRUB loading.
    Weclome to GRUB!

and then load the boot menu.

By editing `/etc/default/grub`, you can easily disable the boot menu. However,
to disable those two messages, you have to patch `grub` and recompile, which is
cumbersone, as it forces you to maintain your own `.deb` files up-to-date with
the needed patches.

`grub-shusher` contains two tiny .c files that will patch your master boot record
and grub files to disable those two messages.   

The software is as safe as I could make it: it looks for a specific set of patterns,
and if not all are found, it stops processing. I have tested it on a few machines,
and it is working.

Consider though that they will read your master boot record and modify it. This
probably does not work on EFI systems.


**USE THEM AT YOUR OWN RISK**

**ONLY TESTED on AMD64 using BIOS BOOT - NO EFI**


How to use them
===============

**REPLACE /dev/sda with your GRUB PARTITION, used with grub-setup or grub-install**

    $ make
    $ sudo -s
    # ./grub-kernel /boot/grub/kernel.img
    # ./grub-kernel /usr/lib/grub/i386-pc/kernel.img
    # grub-install /dev/sda
    # ./mbr /dev/sda

... and done. Note that the order is important:

  1. `make` will compile the code, you need to have GCC installed.
  2. `grub-kernel ...` will remove the 'Welcome to GRUB!' message from the `kernel.img` file.
  3. `grub-install /dev/sda` will create a new compressed image
     (by merging several other files, including kernel.img) and install it on your disk.
  4. `mbr /dev/sda` will remove a few other messages from the installed mbr.

To make GRUB entirely quiet, my `/etc/defaults/grub` has:

    GRUB_DEFAULT=0
    GRUB_TIMEOUT=0
     
    GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=5
    GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true

Note that once you have those lines, you need to run `update-grub`, and on next reboot,
you will have to press 'ESC' or keep 'shift' pressed to get into the grub menu. I suggest
you try this before you `shush` grub.

If something goes wrong, you can:

    # apt-get install --reinstall grub2
    # grub-install /dev/sda

to clean up after yourself.

You can read more about [grub-shusher on this blog post](http://rabexc.org/posts/grub-shush).

Commit message:

Updated README.md for real, to refer to setup-debian.sh.

README.md, after:

What is this?
=============

At boot time, GRUB on Debian and most other distros will show something like:

    GRUB loading.
    Weclome to GRUB!

and then load the boot menu.

By editing `/etc/default/grub`, you can easily disable the boot menu. However,
to disable those two messages, you have to patch `grub` and recompile, which is
cumbersone, as it forces you to maintain your own `.deb` files up-to-date with
the needed patches.

`grub-shusher` contains two tiny .c files that will patch your master boot record
and grub files to disable those two messages.   

The software is as safe as I could make it: it looks for a specific set of patterns,
and if not all are found, it stops processing. I have tested it on a few machines,
and it is working.

Consider though that they will read your master boot record and modify it. This
probably does not work on EFI systems.


**USE THEM AT YOUR OWN RISK**

**ONLY TESTED on AMD64 using BIOS BOOT - NO EFI**


How to use grub-shusher
=======================

**REPLACE /dev/sda with your GRUB PARTITION, used with grub-setup or grub-install**


On Debian Systems
-----------------

    # ./setup-debian.sh

... and go read [configuring grub](#configuring-grub).

On Any Other System (TM)
------------------------

    $ make
    $ sudo -s
    # ./grub-kernel /boot/grub/kernel.img
    # ./grub-kernel /usr/lib/grub/i386-pc/kernel.img
    # grub-install /dev/sda
    # ./mbr /dev/sda


... and done. Note that the order is important:

  1. `make` will compile the code, you need to have GCC installed.
  2. `grub-kernel ...` will remove the 'Welcome to GRUB!' message from the `kernel.img` file.
  3. `grub-install /dev/sda` will create a new compressed image
     (by merging several other files, including kernel.img) and install it on your disk.
  4. `mbr /dev/sda` will remove a few other messages from the installed mbr.

... and go read [configuring grub](#configuring-grub).


Configuring GRUB
----------------

To make GRUB entirely quiet, my `/etc/defaults/grub` has:

    GRUB_DEFAULT=0
    GRUB_TIMEOUT=0
     
    GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=5
    GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true

Note that once you have those lines, you need to run `update-grub`, and on next reboot,
you will have to press 'ESC' or keep 'shift' pressed to get into the grub menu. I suggest
you try this before you `shush` grub.

If something goes wrong, you can:

    # apt-get install --reinstall grub2
    # grub-install /dev/sda

to clean up after yourself.

You can read more about [grub-shusher on this blog post](http://rabexc.org/posts/grub-shush).
